# workshop lesson 1

first Tuesday, 60 minutes

Prior to the lesson we hopefully know who the students are,
their Discord handles, and their GitHub usernames.

Three or four teams would be good.
If there's an odd number of students there should
be a single team of three people.
To facilitate Pair Programming
the other teams should have two or four people.

- introduce three instructors
- mention team formation
- brief {experience, goals} introduction from each student
- mention the class Discord channel; advise creating a GitHub account if you don't have one

# intro to concepts

- Each team will **choose** and **solve** a business problem, and present results.
- What is Machine Learning?
  - We believe there is a Generating Process out there in the world, which produces observables: predictors and target variables
  - We believe each Generating Process has **structure**, which we can **learn** from the data.
  - We consider a set of Hypotheses, which are possible models of the Generating Process, and evaluate their fidelity.
  - A loss function measures fidelity, and should be appropriate to the business needs at hand.
  - Is [OLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordinary_least_squares) machine learning? Yes. And it has analytic solution.
- generalizing
  - We want to learn model parameters that let us generalize to new data, not just memorize the training data.
  - Avoid Data Leakage. It's easy to fool yourself.
  - Split the data into {train, test, validate} sets. We only validate **once**.
- structured data
  - regression of continuous target variables
  - classification of discrete target variables
- labeled data
  - If a target label is always present we can do supervised learning.
  - If a target label is sometimes present then we do semi-supervised learning.
  - Even with no labels we can still learn the structure of our data, using unsupervised learning.
  - Labels are expensive. We can use weak supervision to get more labels, and we can plan a budget.
- data modalities: structured data, unstructured text, still images, video, audio
- tools we might apply: scikit-learn, pytorch neural nets

# repo

Invite each student to

- [ ] clone the workshop repo, 
- [ ] see `make greeting` report "Hello World!",
- [ ] create an Issue, and
- [ ] create a Branch.

Note any difficulties, but don't try to solve them just yet.
Time box it to five minutes.

# project

Form teams.
Write them down.
[An instructor circulating through the room could help with this.]

Brainstorm for five minutes on possible problems to solve.

Have each team propose a primary problem to pursue, plus one backup.
Write them down.
[Announcing such goals to the room probably makes sense, to avoid duplicates.]

Preview the seven "asks" of the next lesson, so folks can prepare.

# exeunt

Class dismissed; end of formal lecture.

# lab

Students who choose to remain for 30 or 60 minutes afterward can

- be supported by instructors
- collaborate on their project
- be coached in Pair Programming
